.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH VDETAPLIB 1 "February 23, 2004" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
vdetaplib \- Virtual Distributed Ethernet tap emulation library
.SH SYNOPSIS
No synopsis

.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvdetaplib\fP 
is a library that emulates tap (tuntap level2 interface, see
in kernel sources ./Documentation/networking/tun.c) and connects
tap virtual interfaces to vde networks.

To use it, the libvdetab.so library must be preloaded (sh,ksh or bash syntax):
.RS
.br
.B 
export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/local/lib/libvdetap.so
.RE
(csh, tchs syntax):
.RS
.br
.B
setenv LD_PRELOAD /usr/local/lib/libvdetap.so
.RE

If you want to divert all tap requests to a single vde_switch set the
variable VDEALLTAP to the vde socket. 
(sh,ksh or bash syntax):
.RS
.br
.B
export VDEALLTAP=/tmp/vde.ctl
.RE
(csh, tchs syntax):
.RS
.br
.B
setenv VDEALLTAP /tmp/vde.ctl
.RE

It is also possible to set each single interface to different vde_switches
by setting the environment variable with the same name of the interface.
(sh,ksh or bash syntax):
.RS
.br
.B
export tap0=/tmp/vde.ctl
.br
.B
export tap1=/tmp/myvde.ctl
.br
.B
export ppc=/tmp/ppc.ctl
.RE
(csh, tchs syntax):
.RS
.br
.B
setenv tap0 /tmp/vde.ctl
.br
.B
setenv tap1 /tmp/myvde.ctl
.br
.B
setenv ppc /tmp/ppc.ctl
.RE
.br

The variable to set the specific interface is checked first then
VDEALLTAP. VDEALLTAP thus works as a default choice for the vde switch
to be used.
If VDEALLTAP is not set and there is no specific environment variable
(and for tun -- IFF_TUN interfaces) the kernel provided interface is used.
In this latter case access to /dev/net/tun is required, generally root access.
.br
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_switch (1),
.BR vdeq (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
