.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH VDEQ 1 "February 23, 2004" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
vdeq \- Virtual Distributed Ethernet wrapper for QEMU virtual machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vdeq 
.B qemu
[
.B \-vdesock
.I socketpath
[
.I ,socketpath
[
.I ,...
]
]
]
[ qemu_args ]
.br
.B vde\fP{\fIqemu_name\fP} 
[
.B \-vdesock
.I socketpath
[
.I ,socketpath
[
.I ,...
]
]
]
[ qemu_args ]

.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvdeq\fP 
is a wrapper to start a QEMU virtual machine connected to a VDE network.
It uses the qemu \fB \-tun-fd \fP parameter to set up the connection with
a vde_switch.

The command
.RS
.br
.B 
vdeq qemu -b c -hda=sampledisk
.RE
starts a qemu machine which boots from the sampledisk image and
has a ne2000 ethernet interface connected to the standard vde_switch.
.br

It is also possible to create symbolic links to the vdeq executable to have
a simpler command. If the link has a name that begins with vde the remaning part
of the name is taken as the qemu command. For example if vdeq is linked to
vdeqemu:
.RS
.br
.B 
vdeqemu -b c -hda=sampledisk
.RE
starts qemu as above.

.RS
.br
.B 
vdeq qemu -vdesock /tmp/vde.ctl,/tmp/my.ctl -b c -hda=sampledisk
.RE
.RS
.br
.B 
vdeqemu -vdesock /tmp/vde.ctl,/tmp/my.ctl -b c -hda=sampledisk
.RE
both start qemu with two ethernet interface connected to the standard switch and
to the switch with local socket "/tmp/my.ctl" respectively 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-vdesock 
.I socketpath, 
specify the UNIX socket to be used by local programs for joining the VDE.
The default value is "/tmp/vde.ctl"
It is also possible to indicate several socketpath (comma separated, no blanks):
in this case several interfaces are defined. The first socketpath is connected
to the first ne2k interface and so on.
.br
.TP
.B -h, -help, --help
print a Usage help.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_switch (1),
.BR vde_plug (1),
.BR dpipe (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
