.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH DPIPE 1 "February 23, 2004" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
dpipe \- bi-directional pipe command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dpipe 
[ 
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
.BI =
[
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
.br
.B dpipe 
[ 
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
.BI =
[
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
[
.BI =
[
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
]
...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdpipe\fP is a general tool to run two commands diverting the
standard output of the first command into the standard input of the second
and viceversa.
It is the bi-directional
extension of the \fB|\fP (pipe) syntax used by all the shells.
The \fB=\fP has been chosen as a metaphore of two parallel communication lines
between the commands.
It is also possible to catenate several tools. Itermediate programs communicate
using standard input and stardard output with the preceding tool and alternate standard input
and output (respectively file descriptors number 3 and 4) towards the following tool.
If an intermediate tool should process only the data flowing in one direction 
use \fB{\fP or \fB}\fP
as suffix for the preceding \fB=\fP and prefix of the following one.
.br
This tool has been written as a tool for the Virtual Distributed Ethernet.
.SH EXAMPLE
.B dpipe a = b
.br
processes a and b are bidirectionally connected: stdin of a is connected to stdout of b 
and viceversa
.br
.B dpipe a = b = c
.br
a and b are connected as above. alternate stdin of b is connected to stdout of c and
alternate stdout of b to stdin of c
.br
.B dpipe a =} b }= c
.br
This is a cycle of pipes: stdout of a is connected to stdin of b, stdout of b with stdin
of c, and stdout of c to stdin of a
.br
.B dpipe a =} b }={ c {= d = e
.br
all the notations can be mixed together.
this is a -> b -> d -> c and back to a; alternate ports of d are connected to e
.SH OPTIONS
no options.
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_switch (1),
.BR vde_plug (1),
.BR vdeq (1).
.BR wirefilter (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
