.\" Copyright (c) 2004,2006 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH SLIRPVDE 1 "May 3, 2004" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
slirpvde \- Virtual Distributed Ethernet-Slirp interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slirpvde
[
.B \-sock
.I socketpath
]
[
.B \-network
.I netaddr
]
[
.B \-dhcp
]
[
.B \-L
.I port
.B :
.I vde_host
.B :
.I vde_hostport
]
[
.B \-X
.I vde_host
[
.B :
.I display
[
.B .
.I screen
]
]
]
.br
.B slirpvde
[
.B \-s
.I socketpath
]
[
.B \-n
.I netaddr
]
[
.B \-D
]
[
.B \-L
.I port
.B :
.I vde_host
.B :
.I vde_hostport
]
[
.B \-X
.I vde_host
[
.B :
.I display
[
.B .
.I screen
]
]
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBslirpvde\fP 
is a slirp interface for a VDE network.

Slirpvde connects all the units (virtual or real machines) to the network
of the host where slirpvde runs as it were a NAT/Masquerading router.
The default route is the node 2 (10.0.2.2 in the default network
configuration) and DNS is re-mapped in node 3 (10.0.2.3).

Slirpvde runs using standard user privileges (no need for root access): 
all the connections are re-generated by slirpvde itself.

IPv4 only. IPv6 is still unsupported.

\fB-sock\fP is used to specify the VDE switch (default /tmp/vde.ctl)

\fB-dhcp\fP turns on the dhcp server for the network autoconfiguration of
all the units connected to the VDE.

\fB-netaddr\fP is used to specify the network address (default 10.0.2.0).

\fB-L \fIport\fR:\fIvde_host\fR:\fIvde_hostport\fR specifies a port redirection.
All the packet received by the host running slirpvde at port \fIport\fR
will be forwarded to \fIvde_host\fR at port \fIvde_hostport\fR.

\fB-X \fIvde_host\fR[:\fIdisplay\fR.[\fIscreen\fR]] is the option to
redirect a X window screen. Slirpvde gets the first unused X display on the
host running slirpvde and redirects all the requests to \fIvde_host\fR.
\fIdisplay\fR and \fIscreen\fR] must be specified when different from :0.0.

.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_switch (1),
.BR vde_plug (1),
.BR dpipe (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>.
Slirp code is by Danny Gasparovsky.
Bootp/DHCP code is by Fabrice Bellard.
