.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH VDE_SWITCH 1 "September 22, 2005" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
vde_switch \- Virtual Distributed Ethernet switch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vde_switch 
[ 
.B \-hub  
] 
[ 
.BI \-sock 
.I commdirpath  
]  
[ 
.BI \-mod 
.I octal-mode  
]  
[ 
.BI \-tap 
.I interface  
] 
[
.BI \-daemon 
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
\fBvde_switch\fP 
is a virtual switch for the vde architecture.
.br
A vde network can include several vde_switches running on different
(real) computers.
vde_switches can be connected by vde cables (see
\fBvde_plug (1)\fP
).
.br
Supported architecture for VDE end nodes include: 
real linux boxes (through the tuntap interface),
bochs, qemu and MPS virtual machines.
.br
VDE is useful to create networks of heterogeneous virtual machines as
well as as a general tunneling tool -- all the ethernet based protocols work
by this kind of tunnel -- and also as a tool for mobility.
In fact VDE creates an overlay network where users can keep their IP
addresses despite of the change of IP addresses on the interfaces.

vde_switch needs root privileges to open a tap interface, can be run by
users when no -tap option is specified.

vde-2 has several features: VLAN, Fast Spanning Tree Protocol, command line management
(on console for foreground swithces, on a terminal for deamonized switches).
If a vde_switch run in foreground mode simply type return to have the prompt.
For daemons there is the -M option to specify the management socket. Unixterm is the tool
to start a terminal for the management.
Type "help" at the promt for a list of possible options.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-hub, 
turn off the switch engine. It operates as a hub.
.TP
.B \-sock "\fIcommdirpath\fP"
specify the directory when comm socket are created.
The default value is "/tmp/vde.ctl"
.TP
.B \-mod "\fIoctalmode\fP"
specify the directory when comm socket are created.
The default value is "/tmp/vde.ctl"
.TP
.B \-tap "\fIinterface\fP" 
connect the specified tuntap interface to this vde_switch (needs root privileges)
It is possible to specify several tap interfaces, comma separated.
.TP
.B \-daemon
Run as a daemon. Use syslog for logging.
.TP
.B \-f rcfile
rc file to set the initial switch configuration. This rc file has the same syntax of
the command line interface.
.TP
.B \-h 
help. please use it for a more complete list of options.
vde_switch is a modular program, options vary depending of the compiled-in modules.
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_plug (1),
.BR vdeq (1).
.BR dpipe (1).
.BR unixterm (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
.br
VDE started as an enhancement of uml_switch by Jeff Dike and others.
VDE-2 has been almost completely rewritten but maybe some statements
come from the historical source. So, some copyright and thanks also for Dike&Co.
