.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Ludovico Gardenghi
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH VDE_PLUG2TAP 1 "December 5, 2006" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
vde_plug2tap \- Virtual Distributed Ethernet plug-to-tap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vde_plug2tap 
[OPTION]... \fItap_name\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vde_plug2tap 
is a plug to be connected into a VDE switch.
All the data that is catched by the plug is sent to the tap interface 
.I tap_name 
and everything from that interface is injected in the switch.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-port\fP=\fIportnum\fP
It is possible to decide which port of the switch to use.
When this option is not specified the switch assigns the first
available unused port (if any).
It is possible to connect several cables in the same switch port:
in this way all this cables work concurrently.
It means that packet can result as duplicate but no ARP table loops are
generated.
Is useful when vde is used for mobility. Several physical interfaces can
be used at a time during handoffs to prevent hichups in connectivity.
.TP
\fB\-g\fP, \fB\-\-group\fP=\fIgroup\fP
group ownership of the communication socket. For security when more
want to share a switch it is better to use a unix group to own the comm sockets
so that the network traffic cannot be sniffed.
.TP
\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-mod\fP=\fIoctal-mode\fP
octal chmod like permissions for the comm sockets
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-sock\fP=\fIsocket\fP
specify the UNIX socket to be used by local programs for joining the VDE.
The default value is "/tmp/vde.ctl".
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-daemon\fP
start vde_plug2tap as a background process
.TP
\fB\-P\fP, \fB\-\-pidfile\fP=\fIpidfile\fP
put the process ID of vde_plug2tap in \fIpidfile\fP. Can be used with
\fB\-\-daemon\fP to store the PID for future killing.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
show a brief help

.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_switch (1),
.BR vdeq (1).
.BR dpipe (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
