.TH VDE_OVER_NS 1 "May 2, 2007" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
vde_over_ns \- Steganographic cable over NS protocol for Virtual Distributed Ethernet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vde_over_ns
[\fB\-D\fR]
[\fB\-c\fI server_address\fR]
[\fB\-s\fI vde_plug\fR]
[\fB\-i\fI ip.to.bi.nd\fR]
\fIdomain.name

.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
\fBvde_over_ns\fP 
allows to connect two remote vde_switches through steganographic NS query/response datagrams.
e.g.:

.B
dpipe vde_plug /tmp/s1 = vde_over_ns tun.mydomain.vde 

binds to udp port 53 and listen for incoming steganographic NS queries (server mode).
All the traffic to/from stdout/stdin is redirected to the client via ns responses.

creates a wire between two vde_switches (with sockets /tmp/s1 and /tmp/s2
respectively). This cable looses 10% of the packets in each direction.

The same vde_over_dns server can be created using:

.B
vde_over_ns -s /tmp/s1 tun.mydomain.vde

The syntax is almost identical for the client mode, except that
to have a vde_over_ns client connect to that server, the \fB -c \fIserver\fR 
option must be specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s "\fIvdeplug\fP"
If specified, the vde_over_ns will connect to the local vde socket \fIvdeplug\fP
instead pf stdin/stdout, using the libvdeplug library.
.TP
.B \-D 
Detach console and send the process to background.
.TP
.B \-b "\fIip.to.bind\fP"
The NS server will bind only to the specified ip, instead of any ip. 
Only valid in server mode (without -c)
.TP
.B \-c "\fIserver_addr\fP"
If specified, client mode is enabled. Vde_over_ns will try to send NS requests to \fIserver_addr\fP. If not specified, server mode is enabled by default.
.TP
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvde_switch\fP(1),
\fBvdeq\fP(1).
\fBdpipe\fP(1).
\fBunixterm\fP(1).
.br
.SH AUTHORS
VDE_OVER_NS is a tool by Daniele Lacamera <root@danielinux.net> 

VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>

based on nstx, a steganographic ns client/server software by:

	Florian Heinz <sky@sysv.de>

	Julien Oster <frodo@sysv.de>


