.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH DPIPE 1 "February 23, 2004" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
dpipe \- bi-directional pipe command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dpipe 
[ 
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
.BI =
[
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdpipe\fP is a general tool to run two commands diverting the
standard output of the first command into the standard input of the second
and viceversa.
It is the bi-directional
extension of the \fB|\fP (pipe) syntax used by all the shells.
The \fB=\fP has been chosen as a metaphore of two parallel communication lines
between the commands.
.br
It has been written as a tool for the Virtual Distributed Ethernet.
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").
.SH OPTIONS
no options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_switch (1),
.BR vde_plug (1),
.BR vdeq (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
