.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH VDE_SWITCH 1 "February 23, 2004" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
vde_switch \- Virtual Distributed Ethernet switch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vde_switch 
[ 
.B \-hub  
] 
[ 
.BI \-unix 
.I socketpath  
]  
[ 
.BI \-tap 
.I interface  
] 
[
.BI \-daemon 
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
\fBvde_switch\fP 
is a virtual switch for the vde architecture.
.br
A vde network can include several vde_switches running on different
(real) computers.
vde_switches can be connected by vde cables (see
\fBvde_plug (1)\fP
).
.br
Supported architecture for VDE end nodes include: 
real linux boxes (through the tuntap interface),
bochs, qemu and MPS virtual machines.
.br
VDE is useful to create networks of heterogeneous virtual machines as
well as as a general tunneling tool -- all the ethernet based protocols work
by this kind of tunnel -- and also as a tool for mobility.
In fact VDE creates an overlay network where users can keep their IP
addresses despite of the change of IP addresses on the interfaces.

vde_switch needs root privileges to open a tap interface, can be run by
users when no -tap option is specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-hub, 
turn off the switch engine. It operates as a hub.
.TP
.B \-unix "\fIsocketpath\fP", 
specify the UNIX socket to be used by local programs for joining the VDE.
The default value is "/tmp/vde.ctl"
.TP
.B \-tap "\fIinterface\fP", 
connect the specified tuntap interface to this vde_switch (needs root privileges)
.TP
.B \-daemon, 
Run as a daemon. Use syslog for logging.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_plug (1),
.BR vdeq (1).
.BR dpipe (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This code is based on uml_switch by Jeff Dike and others.
.br
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
