.TH VDE_L3 1 "May 7, 2007" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
vde_l3 \- Virtual Distributed Ethernet 'Layer 3' Switch.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vde_l3
\fB\-v\fI vde_plug:ipaddress/netmask\fR
[\fB\-v\fI...]
[\fB\-r\fI target_network/netmask:gateway\fR]
[\fB\-G\fI default_gw\fR]
[\fB\-M\fI mgmt_socket\fR]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
\fBvde_l3\fP 
connects to one or more vde_switches, performing ip forwarding among its virtual
interfaces. A new interface is created at startup for each \fB-v\fP option given at
command line. Static routes to target networks can be defined using the \fB-r\fP option.

.B
vde_l3 -v /var/run/s1.ctl:192.168.0.1/24

connects to the vde sock at /var/run/s1.ctl with its virtual interface ve0, having
the address 192.168.0.1 and netmask 255.255.255.0.

.B
vde_l3 \\ 

.B
-v /var/run/s1.ctl:192.168.0.1/24 \\ 

.B
-v /var/run/s2.ctl:10.0.0.254/255.255.0.0 

connects to the two vde socks, with its virtual interfaces ve0 and ve1, having addressess 192.168.1.0 and 10.0.0.254 respectively. Hosts in each network can specify the 
\fBvde_l3\fP as their gateway to reach the other one.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -v\fI vde_plug:ipaddress/netmask\fR
Creates a virtual network interfaces on the \fBvde_l3\fP box, with address \fIipaddress\fP and netmask \fInetmask\fP. Please note that the netmask can be specified either in 
the 'classic' A.B.C.D mode, or just by giving the number of leading bits (f.e., /17 for 255.255.128.0).
One can define as many interfaces as she wants.

.TP
.B -r \fItarget_network/netmask:gateway\fR
Specify a static route through \fIgateway\fP to reach hosts in \fItarget_network\fP with netmask \fInetmask\fP.
One can define as many routes as she wants.

.TP
.B -G \fIdefault_gw
Specify a default gateway, to be used whenever no static route 
is defined for a target host.

.TP
.B -M \fImgmt_socket
the unix socket where the parameters (interfaces addresses, routes, etc.) can be checked and
changed runtime. \fBunixterm\fP(1) can be used as a remote terminal for wirefilter.


.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvde_switch\fP(1),
\fBvdeq\fP(1),
\fBunixterm\fP(1),
\fBvde_cryptcab\fP(1),
\fBwirefilter\fP(1).
.br
.SH AUTHORS
VDE_L3 is a tool by Daniele Lacamera <root@danielinux.net> 

VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>

