.TH WIREFILTER 1 "December 6, 2006" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
wirefilter \- Wire packet filter for Virtual Distributed Ethernet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wirefilter

[\fB\-l\fI loss\fR]
[\fB\-d\fI delay\fR]
[\fB\-D\fI dup\fR]
[\fB\-b\fI bandwidth\fR]
[\fB\-s\fI interface_speed\fR]
[\fB\-c\fI channel_capacity\fR]
[\fB\-n\fI noise_factor\fR]
[\fB\-m\fI mtu_size\fR]
[\fB\-M\fI mgmt socket\fR]
[\fB-N\fR]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
\fBwirefilter\fP 
is able to emulate delays and packet loss on virtual wires.
e.g.:

.B
dpipe vde_plug /tmp/s1 = wirefilter -l 10 = vde_plug /tmp/s2

creates a wire between two vde_switches (with sockets /tmp/s1 and /tmp/s2
respectively). This cable looses 10% of the packets in each direction.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l "\fIloss\fP"
percentage of loss as a floating point number. It is possible to specify
different loss percentage for the two channels: LR20.5 means 20.5% of packet
flowing left to right are lost, RL10 means 10% from right to left.
.TP
.B \-d "\fIdelay\fP"
Extra delay (in milliseconds). This delay is added to the real communication delay.
Packets are temporarily stored and resent after the delay.
It is possible to specify different values for LR and RL like in the previous option.
When the delay is specified as two numbers with a + in between, the first is the standard
delay and the second is a random variation. 1000+500 means that the delay can be 
randomly chosen between half second and 1.5 seconds.
.TP
.B \-D "\fIdup\fP"
percentage of dup packet. It has the same syntax of -l. Do not use dup factor 100% 
because it means that each packet is sent infinite times. 
.TP
.B \-b "\fIbandwidth\fP"
Channel bandwidth in Bytes/sec. It has the same syntax of -d. It is also possible to
use suffixes K,M,G to abbreviate 2^10, 2^20, 2^30.
128K means 128KBytes/sec. 128+64K means 64i to 196KBytes/sec.
Sender is not prevented from sending packets, delivery is delayed to limit the bandwidth
to the desired value. (Like a bottleneck along the path)
.TP
.B \-s "\fIspeed\fP"
Interface speed in Bytes/sec. It has the same syntax of -b. Input is blocked for
the tramission time of the packet, thus the sender is prevented from sending too fast.
.TP
.B \-c "\fIcapacity\fP"
Channel capacity (in Bytes): maximum size of the packet queue. Exceeding packets 
are discarded. 
.TP
.B \-n "\fInoise factor\fP"
Number of bits damaged/one megabyte. 
.TP
.B \-m "\fImtu size\fP"
Packets longer than mtu_size are discarded.
.TP
.B \-N 
nofifo. with -N packets can be reordered.
.TP
.B \-M "\fImgmt socket\fP" 
the unix socket where the parameters (loss percentage, delay etc) can be checked and
changed runtime. unixterm(1) can be used as a remote terminal for wirefilter.
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvde_switch\fP(1),
\fBvdeq\fP(1).
\fBdpipe\fP(1).
\fBunixterm\fP(1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
