.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Renzo Davoli
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.

.TH WIREFILTER 1 "September 15, 2005" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
wirefilter \- Wire packet filter for Virtual Distributed Ethernet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wirefilter 
[ 
.B \-d   
.I delay  
] 
[ 
.B \-l   
.I loss  
] 
[ 
.B \-M   
.I mgmt socket  
] 
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
A
\fBwirefilter\fP 
is able to emulate delays and packet loss on virtual wires.
e.g.:
.br
.B
dpipe vde_plug /tmp/s1 = wirefilter -l 10 = vde_plug /tmp/s1
.br
creates a wire between two vde_switches (with sockets /tmp/s1 and /tmp/s2
respectively). This cable looses 10% of the packets in each direction.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l "\fIloss\fP" 
percentage of loss as a floating point number. It is possible to specify
different loss percentage for the two channels: LR20.5 means 20.5% of packet
flowing left to right are lost, RL10 means 10% from right to left.
.TP
.B \-d "\fIdelay\fP"
Extra delay (in milliseconds). This delay is added to the real communication delay.
Packets are temporarily stored and resent after the delay.
It is possible to specify different values for LR and RL like in the previous option.
When the delay is specified as two numbers with a + in between, the first is the standard
delay and the second is a random variation. 1000+500 means that the delay can be 
randomly chosen between half second and 1.5 seconds.
.TP
.B \-n 
nofifo. with -n packets can be reordered.
.TP
.B \-M "\fImgmt socket\fP" 
the unix socket where the parameters (loss percentage, delay etc) can be checked and
changed runtime. unixterm(1) can be used as a remote terminal for wirefilter.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vde_switch (1),
.BR vdeq (1).
.BR dpipe (1).
.BR unixterm (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
